I've never heard the word growing up.
Comfortable.
What? We're not comfortable. Nobody is
comfortable.
This is the interview. I'm Lulu Garcia
Navaro. Comedian Robbie Hoffman seems to
be everywhere these days.
>> Robbie Hoffman.
Robbie Hoffman. Everybody.
>> She's been praised for her scene
stealing role in Hacks. Last week I was
a casidic labavich Jew living in Crown
Heights, New York. Now I'm in LA. I'm
gay and probably an atheist. Till last
week I never even seen a movie.
>> Huh. And in Steve Carell's HBO comedy
Rooster, where she plays a blunt,
protective roommate.
>> Permission to be frank. Break up. Let's
wrap this up. Go home.
>> Hoffman grew up poor in a hidic
community. The seventh of 10 children
with a lot of trauma. He was physically
abusive to my mother for years. I
remember some bad fights he would speak
to us after and say, you know, but I
would never hit you. But it's like, but
you hit ma.
It's like, you hit ma. There's so much I
wanted to talk to her about money, fame,
marriage, and what it all means in our
celebrity and wealth obsessed culture.
Here's my interview with the singular
Robbie Hoffman.
>> Okay. And action.
>> Robbie Hoffman. Yeah. Can you imagine?
>> We're actually in your home.
>> It's weird because you guys said and I I
was saying this a bit. You said, "Oh,
they have to do it at your house cuz we
want the the person to be comfortable."
But what you do is you come to the house
and you totally rip apart like this is
not
>> like do you know what I mean? It's like
you want me to be comfortable, but the
couch isn't where the couch like the
whole house is moved.
>> Yes. So it's kind of counterintuitive.
We want we want the subject to be
comfortable, but then you come in the
house and you move everything that's
right. And I did notice sometimes when
you see an interview, you see them
sitting in the middle of a room in their
chair and I go, "That's their living
room. How weird to walk in, but now I
understand they move everything. I have
these chairs. These are my chairs." But
normally they're there. They're very
nice chairs.
>> They're very nice chairs.
>> The house is beautiful.
>> They're beautiful. Do you feel
comfortable?
>> No.
>> Fair. Um,
>> but I'm not comfortable a lot, so don't
worry. I'm comfortable being
uncomfortable.
>> Are you comfortable making people
uncomfortable, too?
>> Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
>> Great. Then we're in for a fun
conversation.
>> We're in for it.
>> All right. So, um, we're going to talk
about more of this later, but as you
have often talked about, you grew up
really poor. And I wanted to start
though with what is the weirdest thing
now about finding yourself
>> with money and fame?
>> You know, I don't know if weird is the
word. I I think it's tremendous. It's
amazing. It's everything I've ever
wanted was to make a living doing what I
love doing. Um,
you know, life is weird
everywhere. I my weird doesn't you know
me seeing stuff you know
it it doesn't change
necessarily
based on my socioeconomic status now I
just see rich people in their weirdness
I was poor I saw us I you know what I
mean and I saw them now I see new weird
things you know it's like you go to a
different level of a of a video game
there's other challenges and there's
other weirdness
how would you compare the rich weird to
the poor weird.
>> The rich weird is way weirder and worse.
Um because it
there's like a a humanity that's that is
missing. Uh my favorite is a people like
me who who who grew up poor and then by
the grace of God got some money and now
we could be like, "Oh my god, how weird
are these rich people who've been like
this since birth or whatever, right?"
You know, small things like when you go
into a rich person's house and nobody's
allowed to go in the fridge, right? The
poor have much less, but it's like when
you go to their house, it's like of take
take. You want a Coke? You want a
Sprite? Like we just everybody went in
the fridge, but the rich, they have so
they have the biggest fridge, but nobody
can go in the fridge. Right? So, it's a
small thing like that that paints a
bigger picture, a bigger problem of
generosity, right? Generosity seems like
a small thing, but um I've only uh I've
mostly seen generosity in poor um
households. Uh, it's not to say it
doesn't exist, but it is notable.
Whenever I meet a rich person and they
actually were helpful or great, I
mention it. It's worth mentioning. Are
there things that have stayed with you
about having really struggled? Because
my mom came as a political refugee from
Cuba
>> with basically a suitcase and no matter
how comfortable she is.
>> No, no, no. Yeah,
>> she's a hoarder. She is a hoarder
because she says it's because she lost
everything so young.
>> Um, she can't throw anything away. It's
she's 87 now and that has stayed with
her. Is there anything like that for
you?
>> Everything. Everything stays with you.
Um the way that I am is entirely
informed by how I grew up. Um
everything stays with me. I joke about
it often times, but you know, that's why
I like being with Gab. We both kind of
grew up meager beginnings and we speak
the same language. I equate it to
literally dating outside of the faith.
Um, I Gabby and I getting married, we
dated inside our faith. No, she's not
Jewish. Nothing to do with that, but she
grew up meager. So did I. And that helps
our dayto-day. We speak the same
language. If we're grocery shopping,
raspberries are $7.99 for a little
thing, and I'm not in the mood to spend
that. I don't care if the money's in the
account. I'm not in a place emotionally
to drop $7.99 USD on a little thing of
raspberries. We move on. She's She
agrees. We move on. This thing that you
just said is so interesting to me that
you're not emotionally in the place to
spend $7.99.
>> I think it's criminal. I'm moving on.
>> But what does that mean for What does
that mean for you? I I just I've never
heard that.
>> This is crazy. I mean, I had a great
uncle and I don't know the the the the
comparison, but you know, gas right now
in LA is seven is $7.
>> Close to Yeah.
>> Okay. Now, when I was a kid, I think in
Montreal goes by um liter gallon.
>> Mhm. And I think like it used to be
like.7 cents or something. When it
reached a dollar, he didn't leave the
house.
Like he was like like I'd be like,
"Uncle Eddie, could you take me to my
friend's house?" He's like, "Are you
kidding? Gas is a dollar. I'm going to
be downstairs." And he just didn't leave
his room. I grew up like those like like
the day in and the day out. Um
I don't know. It just affects me. It's
how I you know, even the way I purchase
things. If I'm going to buy something,
it's I got I I I sold out a tour. I I
sold a show. I'm writing a book.
Whatever it is, I take a little off the
top. I make sure it's something I love I
have forever
and I buy it. And then the rest of it I
try and be careful with.
>> What's the last thing you bought that
you loved?
>> Uh
probably my backpack.
>> Cool.
>> I bought a designer backpack for tour.
Um, and uh, you know, as a dyke like me,
I don't buy purses or anything like
that, but a backpack is a kin. I've had
it almost a year and and I I don't see
it slowing down.
>> That's a good investment.
>> Yeah. Really good. No.
>> Really good.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Um, you grew up the seventh
of 10 kids um, in an ultraorththodox
acidic family.
>> You've described growing up in pretty
brutal terms.
>> Brutal.
What are your earliest memories of your
life in Crown Heights?
>> Really bad.
>> I don't speak too much to this, but I
can a little bit. Um, Crown Heights is
beautiful now. Um, but there were a lot
of robberies when we were kids, and I do
remember, um, the summers are very hot
in New York for those, you know, as the
New York Times. I never get See the New
York Times mug. Are you getting that on
camera? I never You ask me if I'm
comfortable. The New York Times is in my
house. No, I'm not comfortable. I'm
always excited. The Times is the times.
So, no, I'm not comfortable, but I'm
excited. I don't need to be so
comfortable. Back to the question.
We in the summer didn't have air
conditioning, but my parents had in
their bedroom one air conditioner in the
window, and it was so hot. Must have
been over 100°. Everybody was sleeping
in their underwear. My parents had the
10 kids on the floor. Some in the bed
and others of us like on couch pillows
like you know quasi made mattresses and
we would sleep on the floor in our
underwear. I had you know memories. I
was very afraid of my father. My my my
my mother was uh my father was abusive
um to my mother. Uh you know I try
speaking about this now I try and give
grace too. Not too much grace but not
you know my parents were very young when
they had us. You know my father was 35
with 10 kids. My mother was 30 with 10
kids. So they were under a lot of
pressure and stress. I'm not excusing
him but I don't know that he had the
proper resources to deal with anything.
And I'm not sure how he was told to
manage his family in in in in the
systems that he was a part of the
religious systems. Um so that's that
said he was very abusive and we kind of
made of him.
>> What does that mean if I if you don't
mind my asking and you don't have to say
>> he was physically abusive to my mother
>> for years and so I kind of always
avoided him. Now he would he was not
physically abusive to us and in fact I
remember some bad fights he would speak
to us after and say you know but I would
never hit you but it's like but you hit
ma
it's like you hit ma
>> and my mother was the sweetest you know
unbelievable wouldn't hurt a fly so it's
like well you you know it's like I don't
know we kind of like I just like I
remember seeing my f like I remember
once walking to the kitchen I was in
five six I don't even know young I
wanted an orange juice or snack and I
saw him sitting there and I saw him and
I go, "Oh, didn't see you there." And I,
you know, and I would walk away like we
didn't have that sort of a relationship.
I saw him and I'm like, "Oh, sorry. I
didn't see you there. I'll come back."
>> You know, so that was kind of a tiptoe
time for sure.
>> When did you realize you were funny?
>> Probably
later.
>> Later. Uh but my whole family, everybody
was funny.
>> We just were all funny. My father was
very funny and my mother is hysterical.
So everybody was funny. It was always
brutal and funny
>> like this.
And yeah, we laughed at each other. We
laughed at ourselves. We laughed at
everyone and anything. There was nothing
off limits. And if you saw something
funny nowadays that like, oh, you
shouldn't laugh at that. Like my brother
would hit you. See, look at this. Look,
you know, like we would always catch
funny with each other. Like, oh, look,
look what's going on there. Look what's
going on there. So, we were pointing, we
were looking, we were laughing.
>> Was funny a way to deal with the hard
things?
>> I'm sure. I'm sure it's cultural. I'm
sure. Um,
>> and you need to have rough There's a
roughness to comedy. It's It isn't
polite all the time. It's not sensitive
all the time. It's It's just funny. If
you grow up that way,
>> um politeness and decorum is kind of to
the side because you can't you you can't
invest in those things necessarily. I
had a joke early on in my career, which
my friend Jess gives me a hard time
about. My sister worked at Starbucks
and she
and sometimes I would meet her after
work and she would close up the shop. So
sometimes at midnight whenever I don't
know if it was 24 hours but it was like
till midnight
and she would she lived in an apartment
four subway stops away and she would
walk home. She had two very long scary
blocks dead of the winter snow dark that
she would have to walk home. Not too
far, but not a comfortable walk home.
But she would walk home in a very
unflattering, and I don't know how to
say this that wouldn't be disgusting,
that wouldn't be rude, that wouldn't be
offensive, but she would walk home in a
way that mimics somebody with um
physical disability.
>> Okay? She would limp or do something
really crazy for the entire two walks to
make herself quote unquote less
desirable for a sexual predator. And
it's too bad that that's the way the
world is, but these are the safety
concerns she did. And I used to say that
as a joke and I used to do her walk. I
don't do the walk anymore. But of
course,
comedy isn't always comfortable. It's
her safe. It's like that was a defense.
That was a protective defense mechanism.
Okay. If sexual predators mostly men,
thank you. They're mostly into young
able-bodied girls. She has to be not
that. So, it's not always
it's not always polite and it's not
always comfortable. I think the idea of
comfort generally, even when you ask me
if I'm comfortable, is a rich thing.
>> These are concepts. Even if you ask
somebody how they grew up, they won't
even tell you rich. They'll say, "We
were comfortable."
I've never heard the word growing up.
Comfortable.
What? We're not comfortable. Nobody is
comfortable. There's roaches in the
[__] sink. I'm not comfortable. The
snow is coming through the window. I got
to put cellophane on it. Nobody is
comfortable, right? And we're very
comfortable being uncomfortable. But the
rich are not and they dictate what is
comfortable and what isn't. They are
uncomfortable often. They don't talk
about things. Things like money they
don't talk about. They don't talk about
politics. Money whether I wanted to talk
about it or not. As a kid, we had one
one phone in the in the main when you
walk into the house, it was a table with
a phone on it. That was the phone. And
my mother was screaming about money on
that phone from the morning till night.
She doesn't have it. What's going to be?
What's the how much does the bus passes?
We heard everything. It's not like if I
didn't want to hear about it, it's it's
like the rich have their own siloed
rooms. It's not like I could go into the
other room and not hear her.
>> Mhm. I heard her. It's basically one
room and the walls are thin as hell.
Hold on.
>> Adjust the mic. One second. Robbie,
>> I hope you didn't lose all that. Nobody
lost anything.
>> Did you lose that, Joe? Joe, did you
lose all that?
>> No, not at all.
>> Joe Bill just won an Emmy. Are you
kidding? Muzzle top, my man.
>> I saw your Emmy over there.
>> Yeah, I got an Emmy over.
>> Exactly. That's why I mentioned Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> No, totally.
>> I hope you didn't lose that, Joe.
>> No, we
>> now that you got your Emmy, I hope
you're not relaxing. You know what I
mean? Cuz then you go, I already got it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, what do we care if the sound works
or not? I'm kidding.
>> We're good.
>> All right.
I I want to stay with your upbringing
because I do think it's a source of a
lot of your comedy.
>> Nothing uncomfortable. Are you going to
kill me?
>> No. I I think it's actually really um
insightful. Go on.
>> Okay. Thank you. Poor people know how to
chill. Once we are Okay, the house is a
[__] hole. It's a dump. But it's Friday
night. People back from work, school's
out, whatever it is. You get into a poor
person's house. You got the the chips on
the table. Everybody's got a Coke or a
Sprite, whatever they want. Take take.
You're sitting outside. You're shooting
the [__] It's a lot more comfortable to
hang in a poor house than when I go to
the rich houses. Like I hate Somebody
offered me, they said, "Oh, these people
are going to Italy. You should come to
the pool. Their house is going to be
empty. They're going to Italy." It's
like, I don't want to go to that pool. I
don't want to be in somebody's house.
They're not there. And then I got to
like I don't know if this, you know,
it's just it's it's it's just a little
bit bizarre. I'll probably go to the
pool,
>> but it's not, you know what I mean? It's
not like the most
>> I don't know if I believe you that
you're not going to the pool.
>> I might go to the pool, but I'm just
saying it's not like I'm like, ah,
>> if one day is my pool, I'll be like a
little bit more ah, but I don't know if
I would do a pool anyway. It's a whole
other conversation. I think it's a lot
of maintenance probably.
>> It is probably. Um, I want to ask you
one more thing about this period.
Eventually,
you leave Crown Heights. You move down
to Florida. You're there for a little
bit and then your grandfather.
>> Wow. How did you hear the Florida piece?
I always skipped the Florida piece. We
were there for like a year, but Okay.
You did your research.
>> She's not [__] around. She knows her
[__] We're at the New York Times, baby.
Okay. Go ahead. So your grandfather then
comes and rescues your mother from your
abusive father and you all move to
Canada. You leave your dad behind.
>> Yes.
>> Did you become more secular at that
moment? Was that
>> what was it like to sort of move from a
religious community to a less religious
environment?
>> So it wasn't overnight. Yeah, exactly.
Transition is the exact word. You said
it good there. I was kosher till 19.
>> Right. So I was still we were definitely
kosher in the house like you know I got
a muza here. I mean I'm not an animal so
there's still things you know I don't
need a d like like there's still
remnants. I don't know that I totally
transitioned out when we left. We
weren't immediately
not religious. We were still religious.
We moved to Montreal. In fact we moved
to a Montreal neighborhood that was the
same sect. You know, the the biggest
difference was not having the father in
the home,
>> which meant my mother took on all of the
male religious commandments. She did the
the kdish,
>> which is Friday night uh blessing over
the wine. Um and Saturday, she did the
habda, which is the the the service at
the end of the Sabbath. Um she did all
the male things. And that is that is the
the the the law is if the father is not
in the home that the mother takes on um
you know a lot of the responsibilities.
So was it something that you wanted to
break from the the religious
you know kind of um strictctures or was
it something that you were battling
against or did you
>> Well I did with my family this was just
>> this is really you're asking about my
mother's battle. Yeah,
>> my mother is the one who took us out of
that insular community. It's really her
story, that part of it. I was born into
it. So, I don't know that it was such a
battle. I just This was life. This was
the day in and the day out of life. For
my mother,
>> she was starting to open up and say,
>> "Is this what I want for my life? Is
this what I want for my kids' life?" My
brothers, for instance, were not
learning English. They were learning
Yiddish and they were learning the Bible
Torah and they were not and my mother is
proficient in English. My mother is
potentially the be the most well- readad
person I've ever met in my whole life.
So, she had a big dissonance between her
kids not being able to read the classics
later on. and like what am I doing to
these boys that they're only learning
Bible and they're not learning their own
language.
>> So there were things like that that my
mother has shared later that led her to
be like I don't want my kids living like
this beyond her own abuse and what she
was facing. She was thinking about what
kind of people are we going to be?
>> Mhm.
>> You end up going to a private Jewish
school on scholarship. Um, you said in
an interview that you had to find your
voice, that you had been sounding jappy
and those were your words in order to
fit in at high school.
>> Okay. I wouldn't use such language. I
would never use it. Shout out kidding.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Go ahead.
>> [__] shout out to the my Japanese fans.
Nothing to do with you. Jewish American
princess.
>> Yes.
>> It's a derogatory term for Jewish girls,
which I can use. Go ahead. Does anyone
give you a hard time back in the
interview? Oh, friend. Oh, really? Oh
yeah. Name names.
Not
>> okay. After. Okay. Oh, I can't wait for
the tea.
>> Um I was curious about when you gave up
that sort of pretense of trying to fit
in with that crowd and that you had kind
of adopted this persona.
>> It was another transition,
>> right?
>> It's also a teenage thing. It
>> I think many teenagers want to fit in. I
was already poor. I was the outsider. I
was going to this nice school which
still was a huge opportunity in the end
was a net positive and really did teach
me a lot.
>> Okay, it was hard socio economically to
not fit in and feel looked down upon but
it also created a fire in me but
um it was a transition. I remember I
really tried I got so lucky. So I'm
going to the school.
I'm pretty I had a great figure. So I
tried to really there was two things.
Not only was I hiding where I came from
and and my
uh the classism of it all, but I was
also hiding the boyishness of it all.
>> I wanted to be feminine and girly and
don't I was always a loud kid. I was
always annoying. I hated these things
about me. I still hate being annoying
and I'm working on it, but it is what it
is. Um, but it wasn't for girls to be
like if you were like if you were
outspoken as a girl or you it was just
like unladylike
and and and still like not hot, not
cool. So, I was kind of pushing that,
too. And I kind of went the other way.
Also, one of my good friends sat me down
probably in ninth grade and said like,
I'm bringing down the group that like I
can't wear a backpack anymore. I got to
I got to have a purse, a tote. We're
putting all our [__] in a tote. We're
not doing school bags anymore.
>> And I was like, but these books are so
heavy. I can't do a one shoulder.
>> I need both shoulders. I almost need the
clip here. You mean like these math
books? Are you kidding me?
So, I remember she was like, "No, we got
you got to get a purse." Like,
>> you're bringing down the group.
>> You're bringing down the group. And
there was signs early on because the
purse I got was from Levis's. It was a
used Levis. It was a green cordurerized
Levis's with a Levis's pocket.
Um, and I would try and do things. I
wanted to, you know, and um
I I I I I tried like looking better or
more feminine or whatever and leaning
into my my uh
my looks and you know, and also talking
different, you know, cuz when I moved, I
would say words like
orange, but you say orange.
>> So, I remember doing that. Well, I'm
going to say orange. Not going to say
orange anymore. Orange is for losers,
right? They know you're poor. If you say
orange, they know you're poor.
Orange is
oat,
>> right? So, stuff like that. And I did
that for a while. And I was kind of
always checking myself. And I think this
is teenagehood in general, too. How I
sat to be feminine. Like, right, I
wouldn't sit like this cuz that's
boyish. So I would try and sit like
this. I would catch myself. I was always
thinking how I look, how I sound, how I
look, how I sound, how I look, how I
sound.
>> And over time,
as I came out, as I started standup, it
was all about like leaning back in. It
was all about like we're just going
100%. I'm still When you're on stage, it
gives you an excuse to be a,000% you.
Another big transition for you. You were
actually outed when you were 17. In a
way that sounds like something out of
Mean Girls.
>> Mhm.
>> Bro, this was brutal.
So, I had a girlfriend, Italian, and
this girl wanted to be out of the closet
with me, and I was like, "I'm not being
[__] gay. Are you out of your mind?
There's no way. I didn't look. I'm not
doing that. I I'm compete. I'm I'm doing
well in school, getting a great job, and
that's going to be the end of that. I'm
not going to be doing all this gay [__]
in my head.
And so she would say fine.
And I just like wouldn't talk to her in
public. You didn't want to come out at
this point because
you just didn't feel like it was
anyone's business or you were
>> and I don't even think I don't know how
long this is going to go.
>> As soon as I found out I was gay, I was
already living on my own. I was already
having to make rent. I was in school
full-time. I was working basically full
full-time, too.
I was living a really grown-up life and
I just could not have another thing,
>> you know, and I was a very good kid by
this point. I was taking school very
seriously. So, I didn't go out too much,
but I went out. This is where it gets
sloppy. So, we went to the student bar
and I was with all my friends
and
she was with hers. So, then at some
point, I think she texted me her in the
bathroom. So, I went to meet her in the
bathroom. So, we went into the stall
together. There's a line, you know, the
bathroom. So, finally, we got a stall.
We get in the stall together and we're
making out in the stall. We're 17. Who
cares? And uh the door sprung open
and in and and so we were left like we
pulled our embrace apart
and a girl that I had gone to school
with part of the Jewish community saw me
this popular girl
>> didn't see me kissing but something was
what was going on and yeah by the next
day it felt like everybody knew it felt
like the scene from a walked to her.
Remember I was just walking through the
cafeteria and everybody was like
>> like she's [__] gay.
>> So really I really thought I'm like
lucky to be here. I really thought I I
it was the worst time in my life. I lost
all my friends overnight
at 17.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. All but two. My friends told me
they thought it was just weird.
And uh I don't know, it was yeah, they
just thought it was weird. And again, it
wasn't a time where nobody was gay. It
just we were in still a pretty
conservative environment. And then I had
uh a couple friends, my friend Malay,
shout out to Malay, she messaged me, "Yo
dog, like I don't care what's going on.
Here to talk if you want." And then my
friend Ally, whose mother was always
nice, she was like, "I don't give a
[__] Whatever. I hear stuff's going on.
I don't have You can talk to me. You
don't have to talk to me." There was a
couple people who were a bit of a
lifeline.
>> That's terrible.
>> It was really bad.
>> All right. You eventually go to McGill.
You study accounting.
>> Yep.
>> You started doing standup.
>> Yeah.
>> And you were getting your um first
steady paychecks as an accountant after
you graduated. But you continued doing
standup going by Rifka, your given name,
at work, and Robbie in the comedy clubs.
Can you talk me through that? Was that
like an alter ego? You saw them as two
different people or
>> No. No, it wasn't like a Beyonce Sasha
Fierce. It was literally a practical
decision. Um, my name was Rifka, but I
didn't want the accounting firm to think
that I did stand up or I wasn't living
for the firm because it was a very big
culture at these professional jobs that
like you live and die for this firm.
Like, so when I started standup, I
didn't want really people knowing that I
was leaving to do standup, like leaving
at 7:00 p.m. to go do standup shows. So,
I just didn't want my name on any flyers
or anything. So, that's why I went with
Robbie.
>> Um, it was my uncle's name. It was an R
initial.
>> I watched a TEDex talk you gave in 2014.
>> I hate that that's still up there. It's
It makes me cringe beyond. But go ahead.
I don't know why I
>> as someone who researched you, I found
this to be very first of all, it was
poignant. It was good. Good job, younger
Rob. I don't know why I'm salty about
[__] I shouldn't even be salty about. I
look for problems. This is what I do. To
complain is to enjoy for me. And and so
I can't even look at something good and
say, "You know what? That was a good
thing. Fine.
>> So, one thing you said is comedy chooses
you. Oh, yeah.
>> And you also said the stage understands
me and it's where I'd like to live.
>> It's crazy cuz I'm like the most
uncomfortable to bring it back to
comfort. Like probably one-on-one,
probably like little small talks or kind
of little dinner parties or something
like that where I can be a little bit
socially. But on stage when everything
goes black in the room and the lights
are on me, I feel like I'm in a womb. I
feel like like I'm free and I always
worked small and then bigger bigger
bigger and now I'm working in large. I
feel like you know like there's some
artists who paint still lives on on 8
by10 canvases and small works and then
there's like the Jackson Pollocks that
need like a bucket of paint splashing
from here to the other room onto a
canvas the size of this rug.
>> And I feel like I'm like these stages
are those I'm working ma in massive
scale now much bigger scale. And I feel
at [__] home really.
>> I'm like these theaters are my [__]
>> Why do you think that is?
>> I don't know. It's amazing. I I don't
know how to explain it better than that.
But um I do think that comedy chooses
you.
>> I think you can choose it and the people
who choose it, you know, some of them
you can tell they chose it and it didn't
choose them and you know, it's
everybody's on their own journey. But I
also, you know, it's very difficult cuz
as soon as I started standup, I was
like, I got to do this now. like this is
really throwing a wrench into my plan. I
was going to marry good, get a good job,
and just live
like like middle class, like whatever,
like like you know, just just
consistently live.
maybe have a condo,
have a husband that now I'm gay, now the
job's going, now I got to I have to
really consider pursuing art, which
seemed like the poorest thing you could
do.
>> And I'm trying not to be poor anymore.
And now I'm like, I could be really
poor. Like, this is no joke, Rob. But I
just I felt like it was a calling
because Yeah. I I don't want to I wanted
not to be but but it was like well I do
have this shot and I do have it so
I I can't believe it but I have to do
this. You said earlier that growing up
nothing was too taboo to joke about and
you know in your comedy it is true
nothing is off limits in your material.
You said in a recent interview that
anyone can do anything.
I just want to explore a little bit
about like how you think about
>> your your comedy.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> You know, do you mean you don't have to
be part of a group to make fun of it?
You know,
>> I think anyone could do anything, but
you're at your own risk.
>> So, for instance, Chappelle can joke
about trans people. He's not trans. It's
not on the trans spectrum, but he can he
can do it. But people can clap back. M I
don't think there's I think you can do
whatever the hell you want, but also
know that it could perceive be perceived
by people however the hell they want.
How do you think about what you would or
wouldn't do? Because you've joked about
AIDS, pedophilia, late term abortions.
Um
>> is there something that Yeah, I know
that that's quite a list.
>> You got to go listen to the jokes. You
can't just
>> No, exactly. I I want to I want to make
that clear. Yeah.
>> Got to go listen to the jokes.
>> It's hard to talk about comedy actually
out of context. I will.
>> Thank you. Please.
>> I want I want to say, but is there
something that you won't joke about or
haven't found the right way to joke
about?
>> I'm sure I I don't know how to answer
that. Um I I really joke about jokes
come to you. It's it's it's
divine. It's it's I don't choose idea.
Where do idea it gets philosophical.
Where does an idea come from? Yes, it,
you know, you're informed by your life
and all of the experiences and then one
day you're walking, you're like, "Oh,
that would be funny." Oo, can I do that?
Can I not? Well, I have to try.
>> Is there like a Robbie Hoffman
joke? Like, is there because you have a
very distinctive style. All the great
comics do, right? Like, I'm I'm just
trying to get
>> you be you'd be better able to describe
what Robbie Hoffman comedy is like than
me. It's very hard for me to objectively
see myself.
>> It's fair.
>> You know, it's like whatever I talk
about, it's cuz it came to me. It there
wasn't it wasn't that deep. Um it can go
deep as I explore the topic. Um and
often times probably I've been told that
it's like not what you expect.
>> How do you feel about being
controversial? Because you said that
people can be make jokes and people also
have a right to clap back. I mean, you
know, there is this continuum where the
more famous you get, the more scrutiny
you get, the more backlash you get. Um,
I can see that throughine in your career
already. I mean, you just had the
Celiacs come after you.
>> Yeah. The only two community
the only two communities that have come
after me hysterically enough have been
the pitbull community after the uh
special in which I said some of the I
talked about some of the topics you
listed so elegantly a couple a couple
minutes ago. Um the pit bulls came out
of all the things I said in that special
raising the age of abortion till 10
years old.
The pitbull people came after me. Turns
out they're as scary as the dog. I did
not know this. Okay. My only thing
really with the pitull was always like
it's always the first time, right? The
dog never attacked nobody before.
I come to find out a week later the dog
ms the girl to [__] death. They don't
know.
They don't know what happened. The only
other people to come after me is the
celiac community. I mean, you can't make
this stuff up, right? And celiac is a
real disease that affects mostly
white women who are privileged to have
health care to get the diagnosis, right?
Um people of color uh tend to be
less aware or not diagnosed with these
things as much because they lack health
care unfortunately in this country. So
it was a funny, you know, I was asked a
silly question about it. I was asked
about gluten in a in a hard-hitting
interview with Color Daddy and I
responded jokingly as I always do, but
uh nothing more serious than that. But
of course, rich white women came after
me as you know, they're at the helm of
both the pitbull and the celiac
community. So that made sense for me.
But of all the things that I've ever
said,
>> rich white women are at the head of the
pitbull community.
>> Yeah. They like to rescue dogs.
which is great. I'm just joking, right?
Uh just like I joked about those other
things, you know, they're not upset.
It's amazing that
more people from other communities
haven't. It's always like the people who
are like
I I don't know. I have a problem, too.
It's like, yeah, we all have problems,
[__] It's fine. You know, it's kind
of like
I shouldn't get in trouble. I will get
in trouble for this, but
it's kind of like how I feel about
anti-semitism. Like anti-semitism is
bad. I don't want anti-semitism. I get
that.
But is it the worst thing?
No. To me, right now it's not.
especially living in a country where
there's massive anti-Mexican
sentiment and Mexican people are
currently being rounded up or made to
fear that they're going to be rounded
up. So, sorry if I'm not screaming as
much about anti-semitism as you want me
to. Right now, I have bigger focuses on
on some of my neighbors that are going
through horrendous
anti- um you know, anti-Mexican
sentiment. So, yes, it's bad, but I'm
not such a person that thinks, "Oh, I'm
going to live a life free of any
problems." You ask me about being
offended with my comedy and all this
stuff. Okay?
I don't think being offended is the
worst thing. I think being poor is
for me.
>> Offended. Some people expect to go
through a life of not being offended, I
guess. Not me. I was born offended. My
whole circumstance was [__]
offensive.
Again, like I said, if I hit your
community, I'm also hitting my
community. They're hitting me. You're
hitting me. It's all fair game. It
doesn't mean anything more than that,
but that it's a more inclusive approach.
I'm including everybody. Nobody is
above. I was asked a question. Would I
go out of my way to talk about celiacs?
Never in a million years. I don't even
want to know about it. Okay, that said,
did I happen to bring more awareness to
Celiac than everybody than anybody else
has? Look what that did in the end. how
many people are more aware of it. So
look at God. He sends us gifts in ways
we don't understand. But yeah,
everything is fair game. Um and I don't
expect to live a life not being
offended. And I don't think I think it's
okay for something to bristle you and to
make you think something or feel
something or react somehow.
>> Well, you're articulating a Robbie
Hoffman joke. I mean in in a real way
you're articulating something
>> that you
>> like to make people I don't like. I just
do. I guess my existence it's not like I
like I didn't set out to do anything.
I'm acting in the moment reacting to
stuff that you know it's not that
serious. I'm not a journalist. I'm not
from the New York Times. I'm a comedian.
You know what I mean? So I might not
know everything and I'm wrong a lot and
that's fine too. I'm not expecting to be
right all the time. not expecting to
live an offensive free life. I just
don't have expectations like this.
>> So, I guess just to bring it back.
>> So, I'm not trying to do anything but
just be me.
>> Mhm.
>> And when I get an idea, bring it to you.
>> All right. Um, we only have a few
minutes left.
>> Love you. I'm have a good time,
actually.
>> Good. Me, too.
>> Um, you're in the TV show Hacks, which
just ended.
>> What's the experience meant for you?
>> Oh, amazing. It changed my life.
>> I mean, it changed my life. I'm Emmy
nominated actor now.
>> Congratulations.
>> Um, thank you. Six lines, an Emmy by the
grace of God.
Um, and yeah, it's just it's been an
amazing experience. I don't know. It's
just it's everything you would want. A
part written for you and gets you an
Emmy nom. It's amazing.
>> I have no complaints there.
>> I was really entertained by a recent
article.
>> Oh, good. um where I saw the headline,
how hacks botched its Yiddish line. It
was in response to a cutaway gag from
one of the last episodes of Hacks, the
scenes, just a few seconds and you say
line in Yiddish. And the author wrote
that the line was grammatically
incorrect and then said very archly
quote as any fluent Yiddish speaker will
confirm.
>> I asked my mother how to say what was it
free? I was using the word fry and my
mother said machinum.
So I add the first part of the line
which maybe was grammatically incorrect.
Who cares? A comedia. It's not a very
used word in Yiddish to say a comedy
show. It's kind of an Englishism in
Yiddish. So it's like
this is what annoys me about Jews. It's
like they want me to speak about
anti-semitism. We get Yedish onto the
show and then this Jewish publication
has an issue with the Yiddish. So yeah,
I may have gotten the grammar wrong on
there, but my mother got the word right
and it's like which any Yiddish speaker
would know. My mother is fluent in
Yiddish. She I asked her one word on the
phone. She doesn't need to be indicted
for this. Feels like it hurt you.
>> No. Bothered me. Annoyed. You see, it
goes to your thing of like uh with more
fame, you know, you have like the
scrutiny and you know, my little sister
gets excited about all these things cuz
she's like, "We're going up up up up
up." You know, when you have the hater,
she's like, "You have to start having."
So, she gets excited with all these list
because it means they care,
>> right? Like, if they if I'm being
scrutinized, well, I'm not a nobody to
be scrutinized anymore. They wouldn't
scrutinize me if I was a nobody, but I'm
somebody now. Everything I say is did
she did she come on we have other fish
to fry.
>> All right we are going to talk again but
Thursday
>> for now.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you guys.
>> On the interview we talked to our guest
twice. So a few days later I spoke with
Robbie Hoffman again and asked her about
the pressure of becoming more famous,
her high-profile relationship with her
wife Gabby Wendy and more.
Hi. Nice to see you again.
>> Nice to see you again.
>> You're stretching cuz you're on the
you're on the East Coast now.
>> Yes, I worked last night.
>> Um, what does that mean? Were you doing
standup?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, fun. How was it?
>> Really good, actually. It's been good.
It was It was a late night, but it was a
good night. Oh, this is pulling, but I'm
good. I'm good. I'm good.
>> Okay. Um, you know, one of the reasons I
wanted to talk to you is not only
because I've admired your work, but I'm
also really interested in transition
periods in people's lives. And we spoke
about sort of many of yours in our first
conversation
and about how this moment you've become
a lot more famous and there's a real big
period of transition for you now.
>> Yeah, that's true. And I, you know, and
I just sort of wondered because of that,
you know, we did talk about in our first
conversation some of the criticism that
you might have received. And I wonder if
it just feels hard to deal with.
I would say, you know, I'm so used to so
many changes. My career has again been
very slow and steady. I think that by
the time you're ready for a promotion,
it might be too late. So, I think I I'm
ready. But it is interesting. You know,
the whole point is I'm new to this. I
think people are curious about that. Um
I'm new to this and you know, I don't
want anyone or I don't need anyone
coming for me. But I think what the the
big thing for me as I navigate this next
level is like what why am I successful?
Why are my shows successful? Why does
everybody come together? And I think
it's because I don't need to be a part
of like this big machine of of of,
you know, this big machine of like
dividing us by having us squabble about
this and that, the red and the blue of
it all. You know what I mean? I'm like,
it's enough partaking in petty squables
when we have bigger [__] going on.
>> You know what I mean? And if you want
the us versus them, at my core, it's
always been about
the rich versus the poor.
>> And that's what we, you know, I think we
need to to focus on. I always bring it
back to that. You know, I think struggle
brings us together. And I've just been
screaming about this since growing up
the way I grew up. And whenever somebody
tries to like grab me into their thing,
it's no problem. I'm happy to be a part
of a billion communities, but I don't
need to get lost in the tit for tat.
Part of your fame is also compounded by
your relationship with Gabby Wendy, who
you married last year.
>> She's unbelievable. Thank God for her.
>> Yeah, she was on the Bachelor and
Bachelorette. Um, and she was also a
Breakout on the Traders, which I love.
The Bambies. Um,
>> oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Okay, I've got a question first. Did you
think she was traitor material or did
you always see her as a faithful?
>> I thought she was a faithful. She
doesn't need all the stress of lying.
The problem is we can't really lie.
That's probably why we get in trouble
sometimes. We say this, we say that.
Some people ask me like, "Oh, you would
be on the show." I'd be out first. Like,
I would literally be out first. First of
all, I'd be like, "I'm a traitor. You
got to get rid of me." Like, I would be
too nervous. Like, I would need to go
home. I don't have the temperament for,
you know, I'm simultaneously, again, the
most nervous and confident person. I
don't know how that happened either, but
I'm always this dichomous
not I'm always non-binary. Not just in
the gender sense. I'm Canadian. I'm
American. I'm nervous. I'm confident.
The whole thing is a disaster. So, I
don't think I have the temperament for
that show. That said, she is a fighter.
She did amazing. And I said when she
would call, I got one one call a week
with her and I was just safe. Just take
the money and come home. [__] them. Just
This is a game and that's that.
>> I don't know if you can swear.
>> Yeah.
>> Really? Oh, I'm I'm stuck again, Seth.
My hair is stuck.
>> Seth will come and save you.
>> He keep I have a man in my hotel room.
It's been a minute, I got to say, since
I've had a man in my hotel room.
>> I lost my virginity actually with a man
in a New York City hotel room.
>> I think the bobby pin's doing the job.
So, I'm just going to remove this clip
alto together.
>> Okay, fantastic. You got it.
Okay. Sorry about that.
>> Thank you for sharing that.
>> Yeah. Um
>> fine. Three thrusts maybe.
>> Okay. Um so back to Gabby, your wife. Um
I've seen you talk about her with so
much love um and so much respect. It's
it's actually incredibly beautiful.
>> Thank you. Have you had to figure out
what a good relationship looks like
because of the chaos of your upbringing,
the chaos of her upbringing? Yeah, of
course. I mean, I'm, you know, we met in
our 30s because of the ways we grew up.
Like, I grew up, yes, single mom
household, poor, but I did have a, in a
way, a pretty stable I know I moved from
New York to Montreal and there was that
stint to Miami, which you caught Lulu
doesn't miss anything. But um my mother
was home
>> 24/7. Every day this woman was cooking
and cleaning, cooking and cleaning,
cooking and cleaning. I knew every day
where my mother was to this day. If I
got to go find my mother, I know exactly
where she is. Gab didn't have that.
Gab didn't have that. Gab had, you know,
maybe, you know, a parent who was not
there. oftentimes didn't know where the
parent was,
you know, then went to live with her
dad. But I'm just saying she didn't have
that consistency. So Gab used to think
that bringing up something with me would
be that I would leave if she had if she
thought I was annoying, which we've
established I've long been annoying and
I apologize.
So she used to like if if something hurt
her feelings or if I don't know, she
didn't like the way that I did
something. if I left the cabinet open
some. It could be tiny. She just
wouldn't say because she wouldn't want
me to go away. But I was like, I'm not.
Babe, I'll close the cabinets. It's just
insane. We can't live like this. Try me.
Try me. So, she had to get comfortable
trusting that. And I had to get
comfortable that she was tepid about
everything. So, um, it just worked. It's
kind of like it's not our job to heal
each other. Um but
you know through the relationship we are
healing each other. It's not the job but
it's the cherry and it's just really
nice to like design kind of the life you
want to live. It's like I've said with
Gab when I was a kid and I hated my
brothers. I would just come home and
complain about my brothers all the time
and my mother would say, "You don't
choose your family. They're your
brothers."
And then I realized there's a loophole.
If I marry Gabby, I choose my family.
That's the one time you choose your
family.
>> Choose wisely.
>> Last question. Um,
the theme
>> Oh, that's it. Last question.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Hey, we're just so um
>> the thing that you've made clear I think
throughout our entire conversation is
that class is at the center of how you
want to communicate um your comedy, your
work. And you know, it made me really
reflect about in many ways how America
always wants to present itself as so
aspirational and to hide the ugliness,
the trauma, the poverty that underlies
it all. And I think what makes you so
provocative is that you are really
trying to put that front and center in a
way that I don't think many people are.
Um, have you felt that dissonance? Have
you um do you feel
>> Yes, I do feel it that especially doing
more oats or elites publications. That's
why I'm nervous like with the times or
things like this. You know, I'm always
You asked me if I was comfortable in my
own house last time. No, I'm not
comfortable. So, I just think that like
I'm cognizant to just always be me,
stand what I stand for no matter what.
And we can start really changing the
focus to not be distracted and to focus
on
us, not you versus me or this or that.
It's just classism affects everybody.
the conversation. Basically, to answer
your question simply, it shouldn't be a
new conversation. It's it's a big
conversation and it's the conversation.
>> I don't know if that's even more
succinct.
>> That's very succinct.
>> What do you think, Seth? He nodded. Do
you think that's succinct?
>> Py? What's pathy and succinct?
>> Py is short. Succinct is also short.
>> I'm glad the producer I'm glad
>> Seth shout out to Seth who's literally
sitting on the floor in my hotel room. I
wish. Can we pull the camera here?
>> All right. Um, Robbie Hoffman, thank you
so much. I've really appreciated your
time. That's it.
>> Okay. Oh my god, we're finally done.
Okay. Thank you, Lulu. Thank you to
everyone. Uh, Joe, Emmy winning Joe.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. I appreciate you.
>> I appreciate you. Thanks, guys.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro. and I'm David
Maresy
>> and we're the hosts of the interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.